Working with Terrain data.
To add Raster Layer browse to the “10n060e_20101117_gmted_mea300.tif” file in Practical_no_4_data
 folder.
The terrain data is rendered in the QGIS Canvas. Each pixel in the terrain raster represents the 
average elevation in meters at each location. Dark pixels represent areas with low altitude and 
lighter pixels represent areas with high altitude.
The coordinates for our area of interest i.e. Mt. Everest - is located at the coordinates 27.9881° N, 86.9253° E.
 As QGIS uses the coordinates in (X,Y) format , so enter the coordinates as (Longitude, Latitude) i.e. (86.9253,27.9881)
 at the bottom of QGIS window (Coordinate and press Enter). The viewport will be centered at this coordinate. Now to zoom in,
 Enter 1:1000000 in the Scale field and press Enter.
Now crop the raster to this area. Select the Clipper tool from Raster  Extraction 
Clipper. (Required plugin- GdalTools)
In the Clipper window, give name to output file as “everest”. Select the Clipping mode as Extent.
Keeping the Clipper window open switch to the main QGIS window. Hold left mouse button and draw a rectangle covering the full 
canvas.
Return back in the Clipper window, the coordinates are auto-populated from selection. Check Load into canvas when finished check box,
 and click on OK.
Deselect the original layer from layer pane. A new layer is loaded in QGIS. This layer covers only the area around Mt. Everest. 
To generate contour select the contour tool from Raster  Extraction  Contour.
In the Contour dialog, select “everest” as the Input file. Give name to the Output file for contour lines as everest_countours.shp. 
Generate contour lines for 100m
intervals. Check the “Attribute name” option so elevation value will be recorded as attribute of each contour line and check “Load 
into canvas when finished” then Click OK.
Contour lines are loaded into the canvas. Each line represents a particular elevation value. Closer the lines, the steeper the slope.
 Right click on the contours layer and choose “Open Attribute Table”.
Each line feature has an attribute named ELEV. This is the height in meters that each line represents. Click on the column header a 
couple of times to sort the values in descending order. Here we can see the line representing the highest elevation in our data, i.e.
 Mt. Everest.
Select the first row, and click on the “Zoom map to the selected rows” button.
Return to the main QGIS window. We can see the selected contour line highlighted in yellow. This is the area of the highest elevation 
present in our dataset.
To display label with contour lines open property window for everest_contour layer and under labels tab check the checkbox Label with and
 from dropdown select ELEV. Now just for faster processing further we can hide the label again by unchecking the same checkbox.
Now to create a hillshade map from the raster, select Raster  Analysis  DEM (Terrain Models).
In the DEM (Terrain Models) dialog, choose “everest” as the Input file. Give name to the Output file as everest_hillshade.tif. Select 
Hillshade as the Mode. Check the “Load into canvas when finished” option and click OK.
One more raster layer is loaded into QGIS canvas. To zoomed-in near the Mt.Everest region, right click on the everest_hillshade layer and
 choose Zoom to Layer Extent.
Now we can see the full extent of the hillshade raster.  Everest_hillshade>properties>singleband pasedocoor
We can visualize contour layer and verify analysis by exporting the contours layer as KML and viewing it in Google Earth, right click on the
 everest_contours layer, select Save as...
Select Keyhole Markup Language [KML] as the Format. Give name to output as contours.kml and click OK. (plugin required: georeference GDAL).
Search for Google Earth on browser or click on this link https://www.google.com/intl/en_in/earth/versions/ then click on Launch Earth button.
We can see the google earth on screen; just scroll it so that Asian region we can see on screen.
Click on menu button and then select “Projects” option.
Click on “Open” and then select “Import KML file from computer” and select the kml file and then click on open after this we can see out file
 is opened with google earth.
 

